from Hanselman is.com. It's
Hanselman. It's a weekly discussion
with web developer and technologist
Scott Hanselman hosted by Carl Franklin.
This is launch Ryan announcing
show number 34 recorded Monday,
September 25th, 2006. Support for Hanselman it's
provided by COVID Smith tools,
makers of coach Smith and
extensible template base code generator
for.net Hanselman. His listeners get
$100 off COVID Smith professional
with coupon code H M
100 online@covidsmithtoolsdotcomandbuyaspposthe.net and Java component.
Publisher Hansel minutes listeners get
20% off the price of
any purchased product or suite
with coupon code H M
one two three four five
six seven eight. Online at
www dot  dot com.
Support is also provided by
slash N software makers of
RSS bus letting you easily
create RSS feeds from databases,
spreadsheets, emails, and directories online@wwwdotrssbus.com.
Support is also provided by.net
developers journal the world's leading.net
developer magazine online at www
dot  dot com. In
this episode, Scott visits, Chris
sells her open discussions on
Vista X-Box three 60 spelunking
and more . Hi, this
is Carl Franklin, and you're listening
to Hansel minutes. I'm not
here with Scott this week.
In fact, Scott is here
with Chris sells. He decided
to do something a little
bit different this week, took
his portable rig over to
Chris's house. They both live
in Portland, Oregon, and here's
the conversation that ensued this
Hanselman. And this is Hansel
minutes. We're doing a little
something different this week. I'm
over at Chris cell's house
at Casa de cells, and
we're doing our very first
Hanselman it's show with a
guest. So now you don't
have to listen to me
and Carl, you have to
listen to me and Chris
sells. Thank you, Chris, for
having me over to your
house. I'm happy to, at
the very least, I just
love when new people come
to my house and I
get to give the 15
minute mandatory. Here's all the
remodeling we did at my
house. So you were a
new victim. Thanks very much,
Scott. It was very lovely.
I liked the, the hardwood,
but more importantly, the Xbox
connected to the media center.
I thought it was. Oh
yeah. And you know, did
you notice that the way
the furniture was arranged in
the family room, we had
to have the LCD flat
panel up on the fireplace.
We had to buy that.
Not because I wanted it.
Oh, no, but because that's
the only way to arrange
the room. Yes. Clearly a
flat panel was required to
make the remodeling work. Absolutely.
Right. Fantastic. So you, you,
you listened to our show,
you drove up to saddle
and listen to our show
in the car. So what
happens is that whenever I
have a period of time
when I've got some free
time and I can't read,
cause I'm a reader is,
you know, I will download
your, a bunch of your
shows. You know, maybe some
just recently I was driving
back from Seattle or I'm
walking through airports or I'm
standing in line with a
bank, washing the dishes on
a Saturday afternoon. You know,
those kinds of things. I
download a bunch of shows
and then I listened to
them. And then, because I
happen to have your phone
number on my S that
same cell phone, whenever I
have a problem with whatever
you said, I call up
and bitch directly. And it's
a fabulous feedback loop. So
you had so many problems
with the show that you
had us come to your
house so that we could
hear them out in a
complete full Chris shell. Chris
sells feed feeds back show.
This is that show. Actually,
it's not that at all,
because, you know, I know
that I've had problems with
individual shows and I've called
you and you've been nice
about it. Right. But overall,
I love the show so
much that I've been after
you for weeks to let
me horn in on one.
I'm just like, Carla, always
let me horn in on
the.net show. So plus I,
you know, you're always, so
whenever you're talking to Carl,
right, Carl has a certain
background in a certain sensibility
and that's great because that
represents a huge percentage of
overall.net developers. I just wanted
to, I mean, you know,
Carl likes line continuation characters.
I like semi-colons, that's it
that's the whole difference. Not
that there's anything wrong. Not
that there's anything wrong with
that. Yes. So you are
coming at this from the
curly braces, old school perspective.
Well, old school in the
sense that I like to
program a solution to a
problem, even when it's not
warranted, that's what I consider
old school. Right? Writing a
solution when it's not warranted.
What you mean, What I
mean is if I've got
a problem in my life,
the very first thing I
think of is how can
I write a piece of
software to solve it as
opposed to there are people
in the world and arguably
most programmers have problems to
solve. And then they apply
the appropriate tools. I only
have one tool software and
especially custom software. I mean,
you're even you're. I was
just going to ask how
much software runs this house.
I mean, I know how
much custom software is running
in my house between my
X tens stuff, the baby
cam motion chair. I mean
the, the alarm system, the
automation of Vonage, there's probably
12 crablets that I've written
that are, that are, that
are running my house. How
much software is running this
house. So it's interesting. So
I do a lot of
software to run my own
life, but I keep it
almost all of it's on
my laptop. And I have
these little programs that do
little things from, for me
on my computer. And I'm
constantly brainstorming new little things,
but you've always had this
wonderful ability to, you know,
solve a, you know, identify
a problem in your life
and solve it by just
knowing of every piece of
software that's ever been written
by anyone you've installed. It
all tried. It all gotten
to, you know, the obscure
command line arguments that don't
yet have documentation figured out
how those have worked and
then incorporated into your lives
so much so that, you
know, it's handy to have
you on that speed dial
again. Cause then whenever I
need something, you know, I
know exactly who to ask,
Right? But what, what, what
price, what price installing everything
in the world, right. I
mean, I am, I am
living the dream right now.
I've just installed Vista and
you know, people always tease
me because in windows XP,
when you click on the
start menu and go all
programs on my 1600, by
10 40 monitor, there's this
gray curtain that drops when
you hit all programs and
it fills the screen. My
all programs goes, I think
I get about up to
pee. And then it just
kind of flows off the
end of the right of
part of the screen. So
ironically, For most people, all
programs means all programs that
you happen to have installed
in the case of Scott,
that also equals all programs
ever written anywhere ever by
anyone That was fills up
the screen. So now on
Vista, when I click all
programs, I get this very
sad scroll search menu. It's
just not quite as impressive.
They're not all there. That's
not very tough ask. Right?
It's not like I can't
see that they're installed. I
have to know that they're
there. So I'm not digging
the new start menu. Well,
it's funny. I have, you
know, I used to run
the Longhorn dev center, right.
I mean at MSDN at
Microsoft. Right? And so I
was living that dream every
day, day to day for
18 months. And then we
have that big split, right.
Where Longhorn took a different
turn and wind effects was
split. And that was goodness.
And now it's done at
3.0, and that also was
goodness, in my opinion, in
terms of the naming, but
that meant that the, the
operating system in a different
way. And it was a
while again, before I could
make it a part of
my day to day life.
Again, I always had whatever
the latest bits were in
terms of that net Theo,
but in terms of Longhorn
lately, well, I guess we
call it Vista now, lately.
My Vista experience has pretty
much been a $300 Linux
PC that I bought and
then installed Vista on. And
after about, I got to
use that computer for about
18 hours and then my,
my son's confiscated it and
now it's in their room
and it's been an excellent
test of the operating stuff.
And what is the windows
experience index on this particular,
This experience index on this
one is like 4.2 for
300 bucks. Yeah. Oh dude.
Yeah. My custom built Fry's
PC, like, you know, lovingly
nurtured raid this and that
two gigs around also 4.2,
because that's the thing that's
funny about the experience index.
It's the lowest, whatever the
lowest score is. Mine was
processor. So for me, it
was a tie between processor,
which is a very low
end processor. And, you know,
I didn't use the built
in graphics that came with
my, my little PC. It
was also a free SPC
prize special, but I bought,
I upgraded the video card
to the 256 Meg video
card, but I only bought
the $50 256 Meg video
cards. So it's, it's tied
with the CPU for the
love. When did the Pentium
four, three gigahertz becoming low
end, low end processor? You
would think I've got that.
I think I've got like
a 1.6 Celeron that's what
I have. And we're both
at 4.2, so, and it's,
and we're both CPU bound.
That's what's not cool. I've
got hyper-threading and everything. So
I don't know it's got
nothing. It's not the same.
My wife runs a $300
fries PC, which is apparently
not as good as yours.
And she has an experienced
index of one because she
has the integrated Intel, you
know, super not 3d. She
actually, when she runs solitaire
the new like w w
Avalon based windows presentation foundation
solitaire, it says unable to
start hardware, renderer, falling back
to software rendering or something.
And she can't run solitaire
and Minesweeper at the same
time. He's too much Wait,
isn't this the same PC
you just threw. One of
those ready boost USB drives
into, you said it was
doing good things. It is
Solitaire faster than ever then
telling me that it can't
render The graphics. But yeah,
it does load faster. I
ran a test yesterday where
I had a Excel and
word and outlook all running
at the same time. And
did that, that swapping back
and forth. It's just it's
night and day. I mean,
ready boost took this little
512 Meg box and gave
it life again. Now my
two gig box, I haven't
really noticed a difference yet.
Sure. My 768 Meg tablet,
my Toshiba tablet. Sure it
did. So you've noticed that
the Vista was in fact
faster on that box then
the next week. And, and,
and, and it's interesting to
watch the light on the
USB drive. Cause then you
get a sense of when
is it that it's, it's
reading from this? Cause the
USB drive has a light
touch, your disk access light,
right? So you can, you
can hear kind of moments
of quiet and the hard
drive when it's instead reading
from the USB drive. I'd
like to get ahold of
some of those, those stress
testers that they showed at
tech ed, where they were
demonstrating, ready boost. So I
could find out if it
really is super fetch, really
working well. I mean, isn't
the little green light is
enough for you. Well, I
just expected to go into
task manager and see physical
memory, virtual memory, and then
ready boost the, or something
to show up as another
graph. I would be surprised
if it wasn't in there,
you know, they got like
every possible metric under the
sun, You know, that's a
good point. And if there
isn't, it's probably in perf
Mon. Yeah, yeah. I bet
it is in there. Yeah,
they do. In general, I've
noticed they do an excellent
job making that data available.
Let me ask you this.
Why, why am I suffering
with Vista? I I've got
drivers this and this. I
mean the, the, the software
stuff's working, I mean, I'm
running.net framework. I'm developing in
the Denton framework. Three O
card spaces works great. WPF
works great. Indigos works great.
So all of the wind
effects stuff is great. What,
what are people Complaining? Right.
I mean, let's just be
real. People are bitching about,
about Vista. Is it really
just drivers that they're complaining
about? I, I wonder about
that the only driver issue
I had with, like they
say this little $300 PC
was for beta one and
beta two, the sound drivers
didn't work. And it was
my understanding. They were doing
still big, big magic on
the sound. And, but an
RC wanted magically works just
fine. And that's it. Yeah.
And it just works my
gig. I'm sure. Well, I
can't be sure, but I'm
guessing it has something to
do with, there's a whole
new driver model Vista. Right.
And so that driver model
is all about performance and
robustness. Okay. And so every
time you have a new
driver driver model, you've got,
you know, you've got to
deal with, you got to
decide how to deal with
legacy drivers. And I don't
know what the decisions they
made there were. And do
you have to, if you're
not dealing with legacy drivers,
get new drivers with the
new driver model. And my
guess is that the legacy
driver support to live up
to the robustness, isn't letting
in some drivers that maybe
would add to more capability
or compatibility, but would decrease
robustness. Right? I mean, if
you think about it, the
PC was fabulous because of
general purpose and does absolutely
everything and you can plug
any old thing into it
and you can write software
to do any old thing,
but we've the problem with
that was where it's great
for geeks, right? You and
I love that. And every
time they turn a little
knob and make it more
robust, they take away capabilities
and we complain, right. And
we write the blogs and
we complain and people see
right where the loud minority,
right. So that's fine. Except
most people use PCs and
they're not willing to have
it crash and they're not
willing to have it allow
insecure things to happen. They're
just not most people want
the computer to work as
a VCR, right. They just
want to turn it on.
I want it to work
Always on or on quicker
or whatever it's called, you
know, push a button, come
out of sleep mode. And
it just it's intuitive. And
it just, and it never
crashes. And it always, it
always does what you expect
and it protects you from
the hostile world. I mean,
we have an ecosystem in
the internet that is increasingly
capable and capable of code
and it's capable of evil,
just like any ecosystem in
wild. I mean, we're talking
about at this point a
natural system, right, where nobody's
in control and it evolves
in its own and bad
things and good things happen
in equal measure. And so
the individual nodes at the
end to provide that same
safe and happy experience have
had to evolve very quickly.
So I would even argue
that one of the goals
that the Xbox team had
was let's start over with
a machine where we can
bake in security and robustness
as first class citizens and
an intuitive interface and give
people an, you know, a
VCR like experience at the
same time. Notice that over
time, the X-Box three 60
gets more and more capable.
The, you know, the big
ticket items that people want
to do with their PC,
right? All the media stuff.
It's not just for playing
games. Right. But the difference
is, is that an Xbox
three 60 is tantamount to
a Mac because it is
a platform with one hardware
play with one hardware platform.
There's not a Dell, Xbox
three 60 and an HP.
X-Box three 60. There is
one. And the reason that
I think that Apple succeeds,
so, so dramatically is that
there's one with, with the
security robustness and it just
apples work. You push a
button that turns on, cause
there's only one hardware platform.
There's only one driver to
have. I mean, you get
your little peripherals, you got
your USB cam, but there's
really only one motherboard chip
set to support. There's only
one power management system to
support There's N chip sets,
right? Cause they changed them
themselves, but they have houses
filled with all the old
computers, right. They can just,
they can walk up and
definitively know this is every
possible combination or nearly every
possible You can't go to
Fry's and say, I like
it, buy a Mac motherboard
and a Taiwan Chip sense
over there. You know, councils
are very like that. But
you know, as we get
to next gen councils, especially
the three 60 and probably
the  not so much
the, we, I don't think
we will get to a
point where they have more
and more capability where they're
starting to encroach on the
PC world. For example, you
know, you wrote a blog
entry about, gosh, I can
keep all my media on
my PC. And if it
happens to be a media
center PC, which is specifically
about managing media, then there
is a way to hook
it through a three 60.
But even if it's not,
there is a whole other,
you know, streaming API that
the Xbox and the PC
both support for getting that
media and sharing it. So
we're starting to really get
to the point where, you
know, people have asked the
question, why is it three
60, a media center extender
and not a media center.
I'm asking that question now
because I, right now I'm
having some trouble with my
drivers and Vesta and I'm
having trouble plugging in some
removable drives. And a couple
of days ago, I had
this sense that my media
was not safe. Where exactly
is it? I needed to
be somewhere that is secure
as backup is back, back
up bubble and is available
from anywhere. Ordinarily it's been
on my main Vista PC,
it's been unreliable. So I
moved that drive over to
the media center and then
chaos ensued because now drive
letters have changed the location
of all the media chains.
So the windows media library
gets confused. It's got to
rebuild the whole library. I've
got 8,000 songs. Wow. Right.
I mean, this is a
nontrivial amount of music. And
I went to rip digital.com
and I had those guys.
Yeah. Yeah. I wondered about
that. You send them your
big stack of CDs and
they sent you back for
high quality MP3s WMA. They
sent me MP3s. This is
back in the day, high
quality, 192 KB, you know,
on a bunch of DVDs.
Yeah, No, I'm a, I'm
a dyed in the wool
MP3 fan too. I've ripped
all my own stuff to
MP3. And this was, you
know, when we had WMA,
which you know, for, for
all intents and purposes is
higher quality, but in terms
of support and compatibility, I
want to be able to
buy a song and use
it everywhere. You know, I,
I put, so back to
this, I got Vista, right.
I put on my box,
suddenly iTunes wants me to
authorize again. It's the same
box. Yes. But in terms
of iTunes and how it
determines sameness. So now iTunes
says, puts up this ominous,
you have used four out
of five of your authorization.
Yup. Four out of five.
Holly. I got one machine.
Yeah. Oh my gosh. Yep.
So now hopefully Apple, I
mean, OD audible does the
same kind of thing. Yeah.
And I'm a big audible
fan, but audible has this
great thing where you can
say, okay, here's the list
of all the PCs that
have been authorized. And if
you want, you can take
some of the old ones
off the list, where can
I do this? This is
on their website. Yeah. Okay.
See, cause right now I'm
having trouble because audible thinks
I've, I've, I've maxed out
as well. And they won't
let me to authorize from,
from iTunes. I have done
it before where I've gone
to the website and I
imagine Apple's got to have
a similar thing. Well, yeah.
I think probably gotta to
call them and yell at
them or complain or something
because the thing is, they
say they want you to
go to the PC and
de authorize first. So the
right thing for me to
have done would have been
D authorized before the upgrade.
But I didn't. So now
that PC Is gone. Yeah,
yeah, yeah, exactly. I mean,
and of course it's completely
impractical for them to expect
you to remember, to go
and be authorized. Yeah. Because
it's not like we get,
I mean, with, with DRM
becoming more and more prevalent,
it's not like one PC
only has one source, so
I'm not gonna use WMA.
Cause it's not going to
play on my eye and
I'm not going to be
using AAC because I love
Mac, but I don't love
them that much. So I'm
going to go with MP3.
Yup. Except for all my
MP fours, which are the
ones that I bought from
iTunes. So have you been
doing this? Have you been
like buying? Oh, that was
in movies, not TV shows
and movies because I just
will buy the DVD. I'll
use like PSP video nine
and I'll just squish it
and put it on my
PlayStation portable. Right. And I
get a much bigger screen,
a battery life. That's like
10 hours long. And I
don't have a, an iPod
with the video support. So
I have, I had occasion,
I dunno, about six to
nine months ago where somebody
had a little, you know,
w M a based video
player. And somebody had a
video iPod now that, like
I said, this was six
to nine months ago. So
who knows things might have
changed, but at the time
it was amazing. The difference
in quality between the iPod
video and the w Emma,
I mean, the iPod video
was twice as good and
clarity and brightness, the holes.
And, you know, this was
the, the mandatory demo, right.
He said, okay, so you're
watching a movie, right? The
guy who owned the thing,
and I had the headphones
in and the whole thing
he's like, watch this, he
reached over, grabbed the iPad
and video, pulled the microphone,
cord out, which happens all
the time. You're on a
plane, you know, you've got
it in your pocket, whatever.
Right. The thing comes out
all the time. And you
looked at the movie, it
had noticed that you'd pulled
out the microphone or the
headset. And it had paused
the movie. I mean, it's
as opposed to, Oh, crap.
I got to find it,
plug it in, rewind, find
where I was. Just those,
that kind of attention to
detail. I mean, those guys
are fabulous. So why I'm
looking at an eye river
clicks, you know, the clicks,
I'm thinking about that. And
so I'm going to maybe
take a look at one
of those to see if
the user enter this there's
the Zune. Right. Well, so
the zoo, so this is
the thing I'm looking forward
to the Zune, although Brown
mystifies me, but I'm looking
forward to see if it
has that same attention to
detail that the Apple, and
I'm not saying the same
features. Right. But it's, it's
a unit of delight, right?
When, when you do something
that normally you're not supposed
to do, but you do
it any way. And the
right thing happens anyway, right.
Unit of delight. So let
me ask you this. Why
is it that someone can
work on a project, on
an iTunes clicks, Zune, or
whatever of Vista and then
myself or anyone else on
the internet or anyone listening,
installs it, and out of
the box has a bad
experience. Even though it's been
tested for three years, it's
been installed 15 million times. And
I just happened to have
that crappy experience. And then,
and then one asks themselves,
has anyone ever installed this
before? Yeah. You know, I've
seen that happen a ton
of times, both for Microsoft
products and not Microsoft products.
And I think it boils
down to the fact that
fundamentally engineers build systems based
on the normal scenarios, right?
These are how we expect
the user to interact with
the system. And that's fine,
except we're humans and a,
we don't know how we're
supposed to interact with the
system. So we're just doing
the best we can. And
B even if we do
know we still make mistakes.
And so what I think
happens is we design the
systems, hardware, software combinations for
this set of scenarios. And
as engineers, we use the
thing as we build it.
And we build up so
much knowledge of how the
thing is built and designed
that we just automatically go
down those trusted paths where
things work. And we just
kind of, I think we
even block it out as
engineers, we black out the
stuff we know doesn't work.
We just don't even think
it doesn't exist anymore as
a possibility. And so I
think I have noticed in
over the years in various
teams that I've seen internally,
like Vista, I've seen what
those guys do and that,
that three Oh right. I've
seen what those guys do.
And the better, of course,
you know, it's not, is
not one team, right. It's
a good Julian and the,
the better subsystems and Vista
and the better subsystems in
that scenario are the ones
where even towards the end,
they're getting it in customer's
hands, they're taking feedback. And
they're making changes even though
right. They, they use it
in a way that is
not meant to be used.
And we still want to
enable that the pit of
success. Exactly. Right. We want
to push everyone into the
pit of success. Absolutely. Right.
So I've got this, this
nano iPod nano two gigs.
I've got the new, yeah.
I want to see it.
I've got the new, the
new one. No, let's just
the crappy old one. Oh,
well you don't want to
see that this is, this
area is, but it's still
pretty cool. Yeah. It's tiny.
You could be careful. You
don't accidentally swallow. It it's
that small. So I got
iPod iTunes seven, right? So
we have seven versions of
iTunes here. Do you have
all seven? No, I'm just
saying that one has, they
have built seven versions. So
you think that, you know,
it's not 2005 versions of
visual studio, but they've had
some time they've had some
time to potentially work on
it. So here's the deal.
It's a two gig El
cheapo. That's the cheap one,
right? It's the nano with
two gigs. Isn't it? Yeah.
So I want to plug
it in and I want
to S to my machine,
and I want to say,
I've got, and I can
keep in mind, I've got
6,000 songs. Right. So I've
got on my computer. So
I've got 20 or 30
gigs. I think it's like
30 gigs of music. Right?
Sure. I want to say,
gimme two gigs of the
good stuff off the top.
Sure. That seems reasonable. Right?
So no, But they do
have this whole thing. They
have ratings and they do
this careful thing where you're
allowed to rate it on
the device and you can
sync the ratings with you.
The issue is now that
there's other kinds of content
that you can put on
your system, you can put
podcasts, contacts from outlook calendars,
from outlook photographs. You can
Put context in here. Yeah.
I can go here And
I can say extras contacts.
So I've heard that presells
I heard that they're doing
games on this thing too.
Like they have an iPod
version of, of Tetris. Oh
yeah. And you know, it
won't be a real platform
that they can run through.
Right. That's the, Oh, they
can run and doom on
those. Yeah. So here, there
you go. There you go.
There's there's rich. Clawson pulled
out of the, so I've
got context. So here's the
thing. I got contacts. I
got podcasts. I got photos
all on the iPad. I
just want to say, and
with the extra space, give
me some music. Oh, I
say, so you want to
say, give me a gig.
I've got to get whatever's
left over is left. I
made a list and I
called the list one gig,
which is the list of
music. Yeah. But that's, I
want to say with the
rest. So right now I'm
sitting here with a two
gig iPod with a half
a gig empty, wasted, because
there's no, cause there's no
way in the interface to
say, I want this, this
and this. I don't want
to have more than 300
megs for podcasts. That's weird.
So there's no quota because
it's all done by lists
like playlist. So you can
say, You have to manually
create such a list. You
can't just say, let me
give you some rules, then
that's what you want. Right.
It seems reasonable. And it's
just, it's, that's an example
of maybe that's an unreasonable
expectation that I have, but,
you know, yeah. Pick just
got pictures of the baby
now on the, on the
iPod. And if you move
it really fast, it looks
like he's talking, It's like
your own personal little flip
book. That's an example of,
you know, people have been
using this for seven versions
and suddenly I feel all
alone from a user experience
perspective. Am I the first
guy who's ever wanted to
say, I'd like to fill
up the rest of it?
Oh no. Cause the shuffle
supports that, but not the
nano. Oh really? The shuffled
up kind of the shuffle.
You can just say, give
me a bunch of random
music up to this point.
And he gives a quota,
I guess. So I haven't
seen a shuffle, but that's
what I heard. Wow. That's
cool. So I'm really interested
in, and here's a cruiser.
Good question. So from a
user experience perspective, we've got
seven versions of iTunes, 11
versions of media player. What
is that feeling that you
get when you load media
player, windows, media player, and
there's that kind of where
the hell am I? Right?
There's that kind of, if
you ever get lost in
media player? Oh, I haven't
gotten lost in media player,
but I have definitely gotten
lost in software and I
definitely get lost in, in
software, like project Microsoft project.
I sat down, this was
years ago when I was
running a little software arm
of developmental. And I felt
like, okay, I want to
use what project is supposed
to be good at. I've
got a bunch of tasks
and sub tasks and I've
got timing estimates and I've
got resources. And I want
to lay that out in
a calendar or an a
calendar. Right. So I can,
yeah. But I mostly wanted
to know how long it
was going to take. I
think it was a calendar,
but you know, Gantt chart.
Absolutely. And so the problem
with project at the time
was I'd never done any
project management using Gantt charts,
using project, using software specific
for this. So I entered
all the data, but I
couldn't get the reporting and
the canned chart at any
of that to roll up
the way I suspected it
should. I just couldn't figure
out the interface. And the
basic problem was that there
was a core idea inside
of project, about how you
specify the data and how
things roll up. And then
once you have it in
using that core idea, right,
the right metaphor, then you
could do whatever you wanted
with the, with the software.
So I called up for,
I think for the first
time in my life, I
called up the Microsoft help
desk on their consumer side
right now on the developer
side, which I've never called
either. But I called on
the consumer side and I
waited and they had little,
you know, they had their
own DJ that was mixing
music and giving like little
news reports and weather around
the country from where people
were calling. So Microsoft's hold
music is its own radio
station with an actual DJ
and they have a DJ
and yeah, it was really
cool. It was actually that,
that was a part of
the fun part of the
experience. And then I got
a guy who knew project
and I told them when
I was trying to do
any detected that I just
didn't understand the whole thing.
Right. The whole, so we
literally spent like 90 minutes
and he taught me what
the core abstractions were in
the project in Microsoft project
and how to rearrange my
data. And then how do
I get the report that
did exactly what I wanted.
It was a fabulous experience,
but it's not the only
one I've ever had. Right.
I mean, that's a good
one that turned out well,
the auto out of box
experience is not something that
just happens. Right. Cause I
think what happens is with
any hardware or software platform,
there's two real modes. There's
what happens when I first
turned the thing on how
do I get my head
into it? And then there's
okay. I've found the features
that I like, and I
know how to use them.
And I've learned to ignore
all the rest, right? And
most software I'd say is
fairly good at the once.
You've learned where everything is
and making it work in
general, It really does work.
WordPerfect right. Shift Def seven.
That's totally obvious. That's how
you print. We came, we
came built in knowing the
shift of seven is how
you print. But once you
do know ship to have
seven by God shift of
seven prints. Right. But it's,
it's that out of box,
you know? Oh, how do
I print the screen? Right.
That's why I hate VIM.
Oh, because you will see,
I grew up as a
VI guy. And then I
spent a very painful summer
doing Emacs, like three months.
I had to leave the
guy who taught me, Emacs,
taught me how to start
it up. And then he
went on vacation for two
weeks and he didn't tell
me how to exit Emacs.
So Emacs ran on my
machine for two weeks. Cause
I couldn't figure out what
the freaking key combination was
to turn it off. And
then of course there's the
carpal tunnel I gave myself
with the alt Metta left
elbow key combinations that I
never could figure out. I
mean, So if, if, if
we had some, some other
people here like maybe like
John Lamb or some of these
guys that are hardcore VI
types, EMX types, maybe Don
box, Don Martin gudgeon these
are hardcore demons. Wouldn't these
guys argue that yes. Maybe
the out of box experience
sucks. But if you just,
if you just let it
flow over, you just drink
it in. Then you are
a Ninja and you can
take over the world. Absolutely.
You're absolutely right. I mean,
once you're into Emacs, it's
the whole mental model is
fabulous. I've ironically, I've been
able to grok get up
and have a look and
terms of the mental model
of what makes the maxi
max. It's not a text
editor. It's an, an editor
editor, right? It's an editor
environment and that's what makes
Emacs so wonderful. And you
can build all these apps
and there's a ton of
things you can do with
it. And it's a fabulous
mental model once you get
there. But the auto box
experience for Emacs is the
worst it's socks. And of
course we eyes there too.
Absolutely. So that's really interesting
because when you have, when
you, when you take that
combination, a crappy out of
box experience and an unbelievably
powerful underlying thing, then you
end up with very fervent
supporters like fanatical people. Like
if you only could understand,
that's like with me, with
me and code rush, right.
Code rush is better now
because in the 2.0 version,
they have a training window
that basically suggests, you know,
in this context you ought
to push this hot key
and that's cool, but took
them two versions to do
it before. I was like,
Oh no, dude, if you
type NTL, Fs, LPSC, you'll
get it. You know, and
you'll get this great macro.
Yes. Oh totally. I was
just gonna spit in against
the wind. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
And of course I'm not
a code risk user, but
calm, you know, calm is
the classic example of this,
right? I mean, we used
about Wednesday. You'd look out
into the audience of people
you've been teaching all week,
but how to use calm
and you you'd see this
placed overlook and, and, and
this, like, some of them
were rubbing their foreheads. And
at that point I'd say,
you know what, if you
resist, it just hurts more.
Just let it wash over
you. The headache will go
away and suddenly calm, you
know, calm will make sense.
And by the end of
the week, that was the
case. But man, it hurt
the middle. Well, you just
Said that. Let, let it
wash over. You. I've said
that so many times in
training sessions for like XML
or the diamond framework, you
know? All right. Well, the
Donna, do you remember the
first thing that they do
in that program? Like most
dotnet framework classes is they
run the reflection thing. They
go, here's the reflection let's
reflect over the entire framework.
There's 275,000, you know? And
then the very first slide
for when effects is like
we've added an additional 87,000.
Yeah. Yeah. That's good. That's
great. I remember my first,
probably six months as a.net
framework guy, I would, I
was, you know, I was
enjoying C-sharp and I was
enjoying visual studio and that
whole experience and I was
really enjoying, not freeing memory.
Right. I mean, that was
fabulous. It was like 40%
less code right off the
top. But I w I
was so frustrated cause I
would be writing my program
and I'd get to, Oh,
I need a program to
calculate a hash or to
crack an Earl or two.
So I would write my
little routine and I'd show
off my program to somebody
and they'd go, well, dude,
why didn't you just use
that piece of code or
there, or there it's all
built in it's all right
there. I'm like, Oh God.
Cause that was the big
deal. Right? All this stuff
that's there. And I can't,
I still to this day,
can't say that I know
all the stuff. I, I
I've tiny fraction. I know
Path.io dot combine or Earl
URI. Actually I fell in
love with the path manipulation
stuff. I know that one.
I like those, But there's
always that one thing you
don't need, you know, you
don't, you don't, you don't
have rather, you know, you
have to go and write
a thing. Like, does it
have like, was it path?
I don't know about that
one. I know that I
definitely had to write the
thing where it'll create you
a temp file, but it
doesn't have the, it won't
create the temp directories. Oh
yeah. Right. So I had
to write that and you
know, it's it's of course
it's never going to do
everything. Sure, sure, sure. Otherwise,
luckily for us, otherwise we
couldn't justify our unreasonably high
salaries. So trying to tie
these, these things back together,
the idea of the out
of box experience. When you
get a, when you get
a or an, I can't
tell you since I didn't
know the next word in
the sentence, is it an
historical or it's historical. It's
an historical. It's an iPod.
So he hit an home,
run a home run. Okay.
So if there's the out
of box experience at an
iPod for like, you know,
my wife, who's a clinically
the canonical example, right. Our
spouses are always, Oh yeah.
There's always the, what is
it? The w a F
right? The wife acceptance factor.
Exactly. And then there's the
out of box experience for
the dominant framework or Vista
or framework three. Oh, with
both of them. I have
to, we have to tell
the user, like I've told
my wife, you know, just
let it wash over you.
I know the iPod is
an incredibly intuitive because with
the one where you, you
can turn the wheel, It
took me 90 minutes to
figure out on an iPod
that I wasn't supposed to
be pressing on these little
buttons that I was supposed
to be moving my thumb
over the thing. It's very
confused. I'd never seen one
used. I bought when I
brought it home. It's not
in the manual. It doesn't
say rub your thumb around
the thing. Doesn't I Know
that they say that the
design is evocative of caressing
something. So you're supposed to
just discover that, right? The
hard metal plastic thingy in
my hand, not big caressing,
but it's just like they
said that, you know, they,
they made the start menu
because they wanted to make
it discoverable right. By anyone
assuming they can buy into
the whole mouse metaphor. Right.
Right. Totally. My wife's family
has come over from Zimbabwe
and I tried to teach
her mom how to use
a mouse. And it was
like, it was just, it
wasn't going to happen. It's
just, it's a nontrivial thing.
She never connect the movement
of the hand to the
movement of this little tribe.
So what do I do?
I flip it over, trying
to show her the mouse
ball. It's not there anymore.
There's a laser. I literally,
I shoot. I pick, I
picked it up. I flipped
over like, well, let me
see mom, there's this? Oh,
well there used to be
this ball. Ah, damn it.
Well, there's a little tiny
camera and it's taking lots
of pictures and extrapolate and
I lost her there. Of
course, that doesn't help. So
we've got this out of
box sprints without a box
experience with anything, whether it
be a consumer product, whether
it be my remote control
or the diamond framework three
hour Vista is they're always
going to have to be
that, that, that moment of
pressure was we push. And
we say, just let it
wash over. You you'll get
it in a second. I
don't think there is. And
in fact, I think that
one of the things that
makes, that gives Apple, the
mind share across almost all
of their products and, you
know, market share when it
comes to MP3 players, is
that they have found the
ability to combine an amazing
out of box, experience and
amazing end to end experience.
And over time, those little
units of delight in ways
that even as you go
forward, even if you Scott
Hanselman get to a place
where, gosh, I wish I
could, but I can't. I
bet you still have features
that you have yet to
find in your iPod nano,
that will make you go,
wow. I didn't know that
that's really cool. I just,
I actually just upgraded the
nano yesterday. Cause I plugged
it in and said, Oh,
you've got a new, there's
a new version. You want
to download the firmware? And
I did. And they had
a feature for maximum volume.
I'd never seen before you
can set the volume and
the iPods and only go
to certain, no matter how
high you act, it might
accidentally. Oh, that's cool. Discovered
that. Never seen that. But
do I want to have
this sense of kind of
spelunking and like, I don't
like going into Vista now
and like the on again
on a 1600 size monitor,
19 inch monitor the control
panel flies open bigger than
the monitor. So yeah. So
a while back, a couple
of days ago I was
wrong. I just had to
scroll down a bit to
see what was happening in
like T3, Z discovered a
whole bunch of stuff in
the deck. Wow. Look at
this. W And you know
what I found on their
windows firewall, thank God windows.
You know, I could have
seen Mac firewall. I could
have seen just firewall. No,
I saw windows, The windows
display settings, or the windows
that you think could put
that in front of everything.
A little reminder, like Jeff
Atwood, just blogged about this.
He had a screenshot of
the, of the, the start
menu with windows in front
of every single word. Right.
Because windows solitaire windows calculator
as if you'd forget exactly.
Well, like at our company,
all of our database tables
have Kirlian in front of
like, you know, so it's
just in case the company
might change its name. We
might forget who we're working
for. Dustin's your name? Because
then you have to third
through all the software and
change all the strings and
it'll take months. It's huge.
Yeah. What are we talking
about? We were talking about,
you know, w w is
there that, is it okay
to make, do spelunking right?
To require spelunking to get
the, The, the, the device
that Microsoft has come out
with that is the closest
to the iPod in just
glorious. Wonderful. What did you
call it? Units of delight.
Units of delight is the
freaking X-Box three 60, the
three 60. Is there? Holy
crap. I'm a huge three
60 fan. Absolutely. I mean,
it has simplified my life
and gave him, give me
the ability to do plug
the digital camera into the
front of it before. No,
You got a digital camera
right there. I'm looking at
it. You take the USB
deal on it, plug it
into the USB port in
the front, and it immediately
recognizes it and displays the
photos there too. We have
to do that today. That's
awesome. Take your iPod or
any MP3 player or any
USB stick, right. With MP3s
on it, plug it into
the front. And it just
works. So we had friends
over that had a digital
camera. I took, I took
a USB cable. I plugged
it in. It just worked
Well. So I didn't know
you could do that. Cause
I had a cousin over,
she had been abroad in
Spain for a while. She
had a ton of pictures
and I volunteered my house.
So she, so she could
have like a little party
for friends and family and
whatever. Right. And so I
took all of her. She
gave me just a CD
full of pictures. And so
I dumped them on the
media center and then I
played them that way through
my Xbox. There's just something
nerdy about the, okay, hang
on. The nerd needs to
run into the server room
and install his thing. That's
what the media center is.
Right. It's a media server.
Now the fact that I
also have it connected to
my television upstairs, that almost
seems wrong. Why couldn't you
have I put the CD
in your X-Box and had
it uploaded to your media
server or just, I mean,
we have a trust relationship,
presumably between the Xbox. I
forgot about that. Why does
it, why didn't it just
take the CDM, play them
and you know what it
might've. I just didn't think
to try it. That'd be
a very interesting thing to
try. I don't know. But
those USB ports in the
front are amazing. I'm unplugging
stuff. And we'll plug your
camera and take a look
at how You just use
blood random stuff in and
you wonder what happens. Yeah.
Tony, didn't you dude. I
got an Xbox. The first
thing I did is I
said, you asked me to,
I play the keyboard and
it works just great. Does
it really do Todd Man,
have you seen the Xbox
three 60 laptop? This guy
built Y yeah. He, what
he did was he took
a laptop chassis and he,
you know, this screen and
the place for the guts
and the, you know, the
little roller ball and he
took it all the laptop
bits and he put in
all the Xbox three 60
bits and the place for
the DVD drive and, you
know, you'd press them the
big green button and it
would just play the Xbox
stuff on the monitor and
it was, it's totally awesome.
Yeah, it works. And you
know, you could put the
keyboard there and you have,
did you try a, a
USB mouse? Does that work
too? No, I'm sure that
wondering if it would appear
What I did is I
tried to play doom. Right.
Do do, do them three.
And I want to do
it with the keyboard. Couldn't
do that. But like in
like fantasy star, one of
these chat things you can
type. Yeah. And of course
the reason is the games
just don't even think to
take keyboard input because it
doesn't chip with the keyboard.
Oh, actually speaking of keyboard
input, little tangent here, I've
got this IRR thing. That's
controlling a robot. So I've
got this function, right. I
are infrared dot scent. And
when I do a, send
it with my list is
a little class. I wrote
it sends the forward command
to the robot. Okay. So
then I wrote a little
console app and I say,
you know, while console dot
check key or read key
or whatever it is, I'm
just checking for the one
key. And then I have
a switch statement and then
I go, I push the
button and it goes, sure.
So that works great with
one button press. If I
hold down the keyboard, then
I get key repeats and
the buffer fills up. So
then I let go of
the keyboard. And then the
IRR, the program keeps reading
that buffer for like, you
know, 30 seconds, right. How
can I get from a
console app or WinForms app?
Or what is it that
any trend in the wind
farms app? Right. So I
D I put a, I
put key preview equals true.
I said, key down, key
up. Right? And then I
held down the key. I
made a background worker thread
that would basically fire off.
And then when the keyboard,
the key came up and
I would cancel the buy
the thing. But the, the,
the repeating though kept causing
these events to fire, I
guess, after you, even after
I, no, I'm saying that
as I hold down the
key, I keep on key
down, key, down, key, down,
key down, right? How do
I get, do I need
to use direct input in
order to get the, I
want the IRS to be
on when the keys down
and off, when the keys
up, I just want to
know, I want to status.
I want to spin like,
wow, True. If key is
down, I think what you
really want is you want
the key down so you
can send forward and you
want to keep up so
you can send Stop. But
I want for, it has
to repeat though, it needs
to act like a remote
control. You hold a button
on your remote control and
it sprays. I see. So
it's not the case that
once you send the robot
forward, that it keeps going,
right. There's no, you, you
click it and it goes
forward. And then it just
goes, There's no problem there
then. Cause you just, for
the key down on the
key up, and then you
have another thing that says,
well, we've had a key
down, but no key up.
So we'll keep sending. So
w in the, in the
wind forms app, when I
hold the key down the
entire form flashes, like I
put a bunch of buttons
on it. So the forum
kind of like shakes because
I, So you built yourself
a little earthquake detector. I
don't know. I, I basically
the, the, the, the forms
key down event, not the
event of the button or
a text box, but literally
the form itself sure. Is,
is vibrates. It kind of
shakes like the key repeat
rate kind of kicks in,
and then all chaos is
ensued. You know, it seems
like it would make sense.
I just want to know
that it's continuing to be
pressed, right. But I'm getting
these repeated events. What I
really want is just to
ask the system, Hey, system,
what's the status of that
key. That's totally against you.
Okay, We'll do that. You
can model it is against
the model, but there are
multiple layers of abstraction in
the model. And there is
a global mouse class where
you can say, mouse is
buttoned down, is button up,
and you can do the
same with the keyboard. And
it will, it's just system
level, as opposed to, you
know, that next layer of
abstraction, which is, you know,
repeating it. This is an
system dot what, Probably the
assistant dot a windows dot
forums dot keyboard system.windows dot
forums dot mouse is probably
where it is. So the
work informs off to check
your book. I'm sure it
is in the book. I
wrote it down and flush.
Yeah. He was looking up
to his, his, you got,
we got up here, you've
got windows forms and the
complete Frank Miller Spiderman next to
each other. He's got all
the good books here. So,
you know, that that's an
example. Like I was trying
to get it to work
in the console and I
struggled. And I don't, if
you just said system forms
that, you know, it's just
not, when it's a form,
it probably not available from
the console. I have to
do something else to figure
out The keyboard. It depends
on what you mean. Right?
I mean, define available. Could
you write a console app
that included system windows that
forms that DLL? Absolutely. I
don't know what you have
to fire up a message
pump, and then you're going
to be watching the stomach.
Can you, how are you
going to be watching the
keyboard? Okay. And remember, it's
the system global state, right?
So it's not about firing
events. It's about what is
this? So this gets into
the stuff that people get
frustrated about with a framework
where something that was global
ended up in some lower
down world. Like if, if
there is a keyboard class,
like you described, that's in
windows that forms, but really
could be used anywhere Just
generally wouldn't use it everywhere.
Right? I mean, that's the
question. Cause we have this
problem all the time. I
worked on a product design
team inside of the connected
systems division at Microsoft, right?
These are the guys that
don't Indigo and BizTalk and,
and workflow and a bunch
of those. And I work
in a little team and
work constantly. It's amazing how
much time we spend arguing
about what do we name
something? Do we create a
new interface or not every
time we do, you know,
you've got new concepts, you've
got to teach to people.
What about the existing concepts
in the framework? Are they
the same? Can you reuse
them? Do you really need
a new thing? How do
you We'll push it up
to another group? Like I
know that Rob Howard years
ago was working on system
dot web dot caching, built
the cache for asp.net, but
it's an app domain level
cash. They wanted to call
it system dot caching. Sure.
But you know, politics and
this and that. And the,
the, the, the hassle of
moving it up, you know,
basically over one dot, right.
It was just too much.
But that constant, I mean,
okay. So in that case,
it might've been too much,
but it constantly happens. Right.
There's a bunch of stuff
in a system or system
dot component model in Dutton
at three Oh, that was
built by the team, but
they wanted it. It was
more general purpose. They wanted
it in a shared location
that has to happen. Right.
People have to be able
to do it. Is it
a headache? Sure. Because the
further up the hierarchy and
the namespace as you push
something, the more likely people
are going to get to
it. The more concepts they'll
run into when they're looking
for the thing they're really
looking for, et cetera. Right.
But the thing that's funny
though, is that when people
who, When those things don't
happen, like when system at
web dot caching doesn't get
moved and then I, or
someone recommends, we use it
in a console app, chaos
ensues, panic will sell for,
I want to use Microsoft
visual basic. No, don't prefer
it. Oh, exactly. So if
I, yeah, in the book
and the wind farms, two
book we talk about in,
in the first version of
the book, we said, if
you want to do single
instance detection, we built a
bunch of the services and
we provide a class and
you can use it from
sharp. You can use it
from VB and that's fine.
Right. And when forums to,
Oh, the VB team wanted
that functionality baked in, but
it's not insistent on windows
that forums, it's a system
Dodd visual basic or whatever
that the namespace they own.
And it's in that, that
DLL. So in my windows
forms book, I say, okay,
so it's baked in, you
can use real engineered, tested,
supported code for Microsoft BI
that does this thing. And
then your C sharp apps
by simply bringing in the
visual basic deal. And that
just feels makes people, as
it does visual basic guys,
you know, they already have
it. I don't have a
problem. Right. But the, the
sharp guys treat 'em like,
they're lepers. Yep. There's a,
there's a ton of really
great stuff in there too.
I mean, that's not the
only thing. There's, there's all
kinds of wonderful parsing and
all this stuff that essentially
used to be built into
the interpreter and visual basic
is still there. W we
do the same thing with
system dot web. We like,
well, we really would rather
not have a reference to
system dot webinar console app.
Well, why not? Well it's
because we don't really have
a reason, but it doesn't
really feel right. It increases
the working set and, and
there's a performance of loading
another DLL when you, and
so, for example, in when
you're writing click, once apps,
you can know what the
arguments were. If you say,
example.com/booz/food out application question Mark,
and then that whole query
string to pass command line
arguments. Do you click once
app it'll install and do
whatever it needs to do,
and you can get the
click once arguments, but what
you get is question Mark
block, you get the string.
So what do you do?
Do you parse it and
write a little parsing code?
Do you bring in system
that web so you can
get all of their wonderful,
very wonderful parsing code. Do
you dig in with reflector
and just pull out the
little bits you need? What
do you do? So that's
a, that's in general a
problem. And so it's constant,
it's a constant battle between
what number of concepts do
you want to push to
the wider scope versus where
do you think people will
actually think to look for
that stuff? Right. Will I
think to look for query
string, parsing and system, so,
and have it be an
Emma's coral lib, in which
case then it's called a
lib is a monster is,
or will I actually think
to look forward And tying
all of this back to
the out of box experience
and my kind of original
questions on Vista. I was
poking around in the now
harder to browse all programs
stuff in the start menu
in Vista. I discovered windows
DVD maker in Vista. You
can make DVD. I discovered
windows meeting was a meeting
place or meeting. That's like
a little peer to peer.
It's like not quite net
meeting again. Or it's, it's
some kind of net meeting.
I haven't run that I've
only heard, but I think
it's like a peer to
peer file sharing. But when
you find stuff like that,
when you literally are wandering
around in a neighborhood that
you thought you knew, and
you go, wow, when did
they it, But isn't that?
So the question is, will
those people stay Or will
they move out of the
neighborhood? Right. If I bet
my company on windows, collaboration,
meetings, applique thing, and then
it disappears like net meeting.
Okay. But maybe No longer
than the start menu, but
it's still in, at least
in windows XP. It's still
there anyway, is it? It
Vista I don't actually know
if it's there or not.
I would be surprised if
it was a little Vista.
I bet you a dollar.
I got a bucket that
says it's still there because
Microsoft in general is darn
good about, they might, they
might make, say something is
obsolete or you shouldn't use
it, but they're damn good
about leaving it there if
you want to. Yeah. So
I wish there was a
way in, in my, in,
in Vista right now. I
think maybe the welcome center
is that, which is the
guide people to the dozen
things that they really need.
I mean, that's what the
Mac that, that dock at
the bottom of the Mac,
right. That object bar does
a good job of doing.
It's like, here's the Cool
I live. Right. Right. And
of course I, life is
just an umbrella for a
bunch of others, Right? Yeah,
exactly. Right. It's like Microsoft
word. Well, I would argue
that the start menu was
our version of that. Yeah.
Right. But the start, everything
is appear, right. Every in
the, in the start menu,
That's not true at all.
Right. That's the difference between
the stuff that appears in
the start menu and all
programs. It isn't The case
that everything's up here in
the start menu. Well then,
then when you get into
the whole kind of the
start menu as a collapsing
itself with the automatic Chevron
collapsing, right. It will, the
start menu says, so here
are the things that you
ordinarily click on. Well, so
it's, it's a, it's a
duel at that point, it
plays a dual responsibility right.
In the, you've never used
it before. It's the, here
are the things you are
most likely to want to
click on first. And then
over time it learns what
you most often or most
recently clicked on. And then
it personalizes itself to you
have you you've used the
new start menu Vista, right?
Yeah. It does. It does
it do the same thing?
Cause I think it pretty
much shows you everything well,
you, in that folder, you
can view river of programs
kind of view. So we
can go check it on
Vista. But the way I
remember it was, there's still
this idea of two tiers.
Right. Right. Which is, here's
the stuff you're most likely
want to click on. And
I kind of missed the
program manager. I'm gonna write
that. I'm going to write
that into in WPF. I'm
going to write a program
manager, which is just going
to be a place to
throw stuff. And if you
could, if you could keep
the old windows 3.1 looking
for you, I'll do that
as a theme. That'll be
awesome. That'll be, yeah. That
would be awesome. Well, this
is now officially the longest
Hansel minutes ever looking at
darn near an hour. Did
we actually have a topic?
I don't know. I worried
we wasted people's times. You
remember the whole mission statement
of Hanselman it's is to
not waste time. So I
would recommend you listen to
this show in quadruple speed.
So actually I'm a, I'm
a huge fan of that.
I, I always download your
stuff and then re do
it at 1.5 speed. Cause
in fact, so Microsoft has
meetings and stuff and they
have online corporate trading. And
if it wasn't, I, there
are a lot of cases
where I prefer to miss
a meeting and then play
it back at 1.5 speed.
I just liked that better.
Awesome technology is all organized
to enable our attention deficit
disorder basically. Right? So here's
a little dirty little secret
that we'll end on. So
I was using the, the
replay TV, right. TiVo DVR
yesterday. And I, my wife
came down and she says,
what are you doing? And
I said, I'm watching dancing
with the stars since, but
it's too fat. I was
skimming dancing with the stars.
I was playing dancing with
the stars back in, you
know, five X speed. It
was a two hour show
as the results show. Right.
I want to know who's
gonna win, but I do
want to see some of
the dancing. So instead of
skipping ahead, 30 seconds, put
it on fast forward on
fast food. I watched the
whole thing in 20 minutes.
I actually used to do
that with my VCR. I
used to watch, I would
have liked this movie. I'm
like, well, I don't know
if it's going to be
good or not. I got
20 minutes. I know I'll
watch it at, you know,
fast forward. And I can
see the hole. And it's
amazing how little you need
the dialogue. If it's a
bad movie, you know that
the Comcast DVR that I
use, the Motorola DVR that
Comcast cable gives you. If
you play it in double
speed with the closed captioning
on the close captioning will
still be there. So you
just have to read really
fast. So if you can
read fast enough, you can
put it into in double
X speed. I think, you
know, we talk sometimes about
the various gaps between various
layers of our society. I
think that the real gap
is that is the knowledge
consumption gap, right? How fast,
because this is huge avalanche
of data. How fast can
I squeeze it into my
brain? And as soon as
we get to squeezing entertainment
into our brain, then we
know we've gone totally around
the back. I felt like
I had two solid hours
of good dancing with celebrities
stuffed into my brain, but
I'm not willing to give
them two hours of my
time. I'm willing to give
them 20 minutes of my
time. I think that is,
sounds like a personal problem
to me. Yes. And on
that note, this has been
our very first interview of
Hanselman. It's what Chris sells.
Thank you, Chris, for having
me over to your house,
it has been a pleasure.